Port MASTG-TEST-0066 (iOS TLS Settings) to MASTG v2 (#3792)
OWASP/mastg: knowledge/ios/MASVS-NETWORK/MASTG-KNOW-0071.md

```

For more information on ATS exceptions please consult section "Configure Exceptions Only When Needed; Prefer Server Fixes" from the article "Preventing Insecure Network Connections" in the [Apple Developer Documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/preventing_insecure_network_connections#3138482) and the [blog post on ATS](https://www.nowsecure.com/blog/2017/08/31/security-analysts-guide-nsapptransportsecurity-nsallowsarbitraryloads-app-transport-security-ats-exceptions/ "A guide to ATS").

## Runtime Validation of ATS TLS Settings

> Static analysis can identify configured exceptions in `Info.plist`, but it can't confirm what TLS version is actually negotiated against real servers. On macOS, the `nscurl` tool can test ATS behavior against a real endpoint by simulating the ATS policy evaluation. It runs a permutation of ATS settings and reports which configurations succeed or fail, making it useful for identifying what exceptions a given server would require. Apple recommends fixing server-side TLS issues rather than adding ATS exceptions. See @MASTG-TECH-0x01 for step-by-step guidance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note

    For macOS Tahoe 26 and later, TLS 1.0/1.1 connections always fail. Since [macOS Tahoe 26](https://support.apple.com/en-us/126655), the default ATS policy enforced by `URLSession` and `Network.framework` requires TLS 1.2 or higher with ATS-compliant ciphersuites and certificates. As a result, `nscurl` reports `FAIL` for any test using a TLS version below 1.2, even when an `NSExceptionMinimumTLSVersion` exception would normally allow it because the host macOS stack refuses the handshake before ATS exceptions are evaluated. To validate apps targeting older TLS versions, for which these exceptions still apply, test on a real iOS device, not the iOS Simulator.

Static analysis can identify configured exceptions in `Info.plist`, but it can't confirm what TLS version is actually negotiated against real servers. On macOS, the `nscurl` tool can test ATS behavior against a real endpoint by simulating the ATS policy evaluation. It runs a series of permutations of ATS settings and reports which configurations succeed or fail, making it useful for identifying what exceptions a given server would require. Apple recommends fixing server-side TLS issues rather than adding ATS exceptions. See @MASTG-TECH-0x01 for step-by-step guidance.
```
